former CIA director and fourstar General
David Petraeus is a regular guest on D
news General Petraeus thank you very
much for making time at the very
beginning of this crucial Year Mr
Petraeus besides the war in Ukraine we
are witnessing another major military
conflict in Gaza the Israeli government
says its goal is to destroy Hamas and
that it will continue their military
operation until this is accomplished
with your experience is this even
impossible to destroy a terror
organization such as Hamas militarily
it's possible the question is whether it
is likely at this point and I think it
is in question to do that uh as I've
described to you before you have to
clear and hold all of Gaza you have to
clear every building floor room Cellar
tunnel uh destroy the infrastructure
kill or capture a substantial number of
the actual the leaders in particular but
also the fighters and we're talking tens
of thousands they want to destroy Hamas
dismantle the political wing and
obviously gain the uh the recovery of
their hostages but there need to be
other Big Ideas uh there needs to be a
big idea about who's going to administer
Gaza I think inevitably at least on a
temporary basis it's going to fall to
Israel to do that there no hands going
up to do that there's no capable
competent Trust were the Palestinian
entity that can be brought over from the
West Bank and they wouldn't want to go
in on the backs of Israeli tanks anyway
sounds as if it's transitioning to a
more targeted raid approach that can
indeed kill or capture leaders of Gaza
and perhaps important elements of it but
we use that technique in ratti and fuia
and other areas in a rock prior to the
surge um and while it might disrupt the
enemy periodically it was not enough to
destroy the enemy to destroy an enemy
you have to render it incapable of
accomplishing its Mission without
reconstitution the strategy uh Israel is
following right now uh comes with a huge
humanitarian cost I'll just say first of
all that when we conducted these
operations in Romani fua bakuba mosul
particular mosul a very large city and
other parts of urban areas in Iraq The
Surge when we destroyed kaida in Iraq we
were worked very very hard to keep loss
of innocent life to a minimum and often
the very first objective would be to
seize the hospital for example fuia the
first objective was to actually take
control of the hospital and keep it open
and to provide our medical assistance
and uh Pharmaceuticals and drugs and all
the rest of this uh if they were running
short because we wanted to take take
care of the population knew that
inevitably there are civilian uh
casualties but again you keep them to a
minimum and when they do occur you try
to treat them as quickly as you can
again the objective is to create a
better life for the people as you are
also separating them from the extremists
and destroying the extremist Group which
has brought such hardship on them we
also had a sign on the wall of our
operation centers and every one of my
five combat commands which asked a
question will this operation take more
bad guys off the street than it creates
by its conduct and if the answer to that
was no then you're supposed to go back
and examine how you can change the
operation so that the answer is yes if
you still can't get to yes then you put
it on hold for a period of time but
there's no question I think that the
loss of innocent civilian life has been
very troubling and our president vice
president secretary of state Secretary
of Defense and others have uh reiterated
how crucial it is uh that you not create
additional enemies you don't Foster an
an a new generation that might be
attracted by the Hamas ideology by the
way you go about destroying Hamas and
again I want to see Hamas destroyed I
want Israel to be able to achieve that I
believe it is necessary if you don't do
that then again what's left will
reconstitute uh and you're going to see
necessity for more such operations in
the future an Israeli drone just killed
a deputy Hamas Chief in Beirut um that
is also causing uh uh more trouble if
you want to say so so lebanon's PM
accuses Israel of trying to I quote this
here drag it Lebanon inter Regional War
so my question is I assume How concerned
are you that the war will be spilling
over to the whole region I I think you
clearly have to be concerned about the
possibility of uh why in of the war if
you will and we can walk our way around
the region Lebanon Iraq Iran Yemen and
so forth and and discuss that when it
comes to the Iranian supported Lebanese
Hezbollah however I've felt from the
beginning and stated from the beginning
that I didn't feel that hisb wanted to
get into the kind of war that they uh
provoked with their actions back in 2006
you know the original assessment that
case was that the Israeli Air Force had
over promised and underd delivered uh
that assessment proved inaccurate and
several times in subsequent years once
when I was the Central Command Commander
again later when I was the director of
the CIA we went back and and changed
that assessment as we realized how much
damage uh Israel had done to Hezbollah
infrastructure in southern Lebanon and
the fact that they were still rebuilding
I'm sure there are still signs
of damage from that particular war and I
think that is why they have so far been
calibrating what it is they have done
they want to show that they are uh
supporting Hamas and they're doing it
certainly very much rhetorically but
their physical actions have been limited
to a handful or two handfuls of attacks
per day that have only gone to a certain
depth within Israel and it is
interesting that the mosad leader uh
Avid barnea has stated that this is
going to be carried out in a way he
alluded to what was done after uh the
terrorist attack at the Munich Olympics
that they're going to hunt down Amos
leaders wherever they are some people
around the world say that the US however
still should draw kind of a red line in
regard of Israel uh supporting Israel
with military equipment do you agree on
that should there be something where the
US says no stop that goes too far to be
fair the administration did actually
halt the delivery of small arms uh
because of it's publicly stated concern
that they might be provided to the
settlers in the West Bank who are
carrying out what what was essentially
vigilante actions in the eyes of the
administration so there has been some
limit but again I think we all want by
the way I think the Arab countries in
the region want to see Hamas destroyed
and the political Wing dismantled again
the big fear of many of the Gulf States
is precisely what Hamas manifests uh it
is political Islam and it is Extreme
islamist extremism um so again I'm
rooting for Israel I want them to be
able to destroy Hamas and dismantle its
political wing and obviously to rescue
their hostages uh but right now it is
not entirely clear whether that will
prove possible no situation has been
more challenged ing than that which has
faced Israel in Gaza the density of the
population an enemy who doesn't wear
uniforms an enemy who hides behind
civilians uses them as human Shields
holds over a 100 hostages still has an
vast tunnel Network knows the
neighborhood has been preparing its
defenses for many years uh in some cases
is willing to blow itself up to take
them with him uh again it just could not
be more challenging and more complex
2024 is also a presidential election
year here in the United States many
people around the world ask what if
Trump wins what do you expect would he
do with respect to Ukraine would he try
to kind of do a switch up with Putin is
this something possible I honestly don't
know keep in mind there are many other
uh bodies in Washington including both
houses of
Congress uh in which there are strong
bipartisan majorities that support
continued authorization and
appropriation for Ukraine and I think we
will see in the weeks that lie ahead for
example that the issues in Our House of
Representatives will be resolved uh of
course what they're trying to do is use
some of this as leverage to get the
administration to a degree some to some
policy changes and other actions to uh
improve the security of our Southern
border which I think is a is a worthy
objective given the issues uh that we're
seeing down there the unprecedented
number of illegal uh immigrants coming
across that border but I do think that
this will be resolved the question is is
it next week the week after the week
after that but there will be very
substantial uh additional authorizations
and Appropriations for Ukraine and also
to replenish our own
stockpiles um so that is forthcoming
that will take us all the way through uh
until the inauguration of the next
Administration
and frankly the 10 months that lie ahead
is an eternity in American politics as
you know from being here for some time
there's no telling what twists and turns
uh May uh may appear uh in the months
that lie ahead and I think very
premature to start speculating about
what one or the other candidate will
particularly the former president might
do if he were to come back to office
however last time he was in office he
tried to really pull out of NATO um I
mean you as a fourstar general what do
you think what would uh the military
leadership think about that and could
they try to throw up obstacles uh
against that uh wish uh and how would
they look like well there's already been
legislation passed that prevents a
president from taking us out of NATO so
I think that's not a not a viable
question at this point in time however
NATO is built on trust if if he would
threaten to leave NATO again wouldn't
this alone this threat alone weaken uh
the alliance tremendously well you know
I used to say uh
when uh president Trump was in office
that you should read the tweets um
because they are they were the unedited
expressions of the president of the
United States uh but then follow the
troops follow the money and follow the
policy and actually during his
administration we returned an armored
Brigade uh to Europe for the first time
since it had been withdrawn some years
previously I think during the Obama
Administration um we approved the new
NATO structure and so forth um supported
a variety of other initiatives that
actually improved uh the posture of NATO
uh so all of that was carried out and
again keep in mind that there is very
very strong bipartisan support in
Washington DC uh for continued
involvement with NATO but also recognize
that every single pre president
including the two for whom I served as a
commander as a fourstar in war um were
concerned and expressed it publicly uh
that there were certain NATO allies who
were not paying their share if you will
and that's why it's been so heartening
to see
Germany after the ziton vendon uh commit
to not only getting to 1.5% of uh GDP on
defense but to exceed 2% and and we look
forward uh to seeing that implemented
obviously uh through the bundock it's
very very encouraging the number four
economy in the world that increases so
substantially is a very significant
statement and I'd also just point out
finally uh that Europe has committed to
double what the United States has
committed to in supporting Ukraine it's
not only given more now pledged more in
terms terms of security assistance than
the US has pledged and the US has
pledged over $44 billion do as you know
um it is pledged far far more when it
comes to economic uh financial and
humanitarian assistance which I think is
appropriate this is after all a European
security issue that brings me to my
question does us has really the
Strategic patience to keep up the
support for Ukraine I think it does and
I think we also have the capability um I
noted that the US has contributed over
44 billion dollars worth of security
assistance but that's out of two years
of defense spending that total more than
1.7 trillion so this is very affordable
and again Ukraine is not asking
Americans or soldiers of any NATO
country to fight and die for their
country uh they young men and women in
uniform are doing that this is their war
of independence and they re recognize it
as such as their fight for their very
survival did Ukraine really ever have a
chance to win this offensive without
Western fighter jets uh in hindsight I
think not um again our own Doctrine
requires air superiority not just air
parity but air superiority to breach the
kind of very substantial obstacles that
were encountered uh in the defenses that
Russia established in the South there
are rumors or talks uh uh that it is
possible that most of Ukraine joins NATO
and the rest stays occupied by Russia do
you think this is a possible likely
scenario I don't know that it's likely I
know that it's one of the kinds of
scenarios that people are
exploring um I tend to think that
liberating really all that Russia has
occupied including Crimea and the
donbass is really necessary both from a
def defensive perspective to shrink the
area that Russia uh can engage Ukraine
over I mean the front now is very very
substantial it's vastly greater than it
was uh when you just had Russia in the
dabass but but the dabass is also
necessary from an economic perspective
if you're truly to see Ukraine Prosper
uh in the way that we would like uh but
I know there's a variety of different
scenarios that people are looking at uh
that could engage uh nato in some way
certainly EU membership as well would be
very very desirable uh and then
commitment of very substantial funds in
what might be term some kind of
modern-day Marshall Plan uh to help
Ukraine pursue its reconstruction what
is the biggest threat for Ukraine right
now well I think there are a number of
possible issues um the most concerning I
think right now is the possibility that
Russia could on some some evening let's
say really
overwhelmed uh the counter drone
anti-air and anti-ballistic missile
defenses and do the kind of damage to
Ukrainian infrastructure that it has
sought to do from the very beginning uh
but never really has achieved uh and I
think that could be very very uh
damaging it would um it could undermine
morale as well and it's why I said it's
imperative uh that we Rush everything we
can to them as quickly as we can to
ensure frankly that that is not possible
but you make of reports of us uh
pressure on Selinsky to cut a deal with
Russia to at least freeze the war along
the current front lines not much because
I don't think that they are U I don't
think there are those kinds of
pressures um certainly it's one thing
for people to explore or think about or
you know how might uh this war be
brought to an end but the Administration
has said from the
outset that we nothing with about
Ukraine without Ukraine and and I
believe that they have adhered to that
particular big idea where will we be in
six months time in
Ukraine it depends uh and having taught
economics in an earlier life uh you can
never go wrong by beginning an answer by
saying it depends it clearly depends on
a variety of the different
uh factors that I've explained are in
play um it depends on how well the
ukrainians do and generating additional
forces it depends on how well the
Western countries NATO countries us uh
do in providing the capabilities that
General zusan has identified as being
required uh it depends on whether Russia
can continue to generate forces on its
side noting that it has never fully
mobilized uh it is trying to Shield the
population of Moscow and St Petersburg
and so forth and generally uh recruiting
forces from the more rural areas not to
mention from prisons and private
military
contractors rather than uh from the
children of the the elite if you will
look I really think this is about as
right versus wrong in the world that it
gets I think it's very much uh in the
interest of all NATO and all Western
countries uh to make sure that Russia
cannot succeed uh and that Ukraine is
able to liberate all of its territory
join the EU join NATO uh and enable uh
its reconstruction thank you
pleasure